Hi everyone! Thank you. All right. So we're going to kick things off. I'm going to introduce
a little bit of the problem and then talk about mojo Max today. So I just want to start out
with a little bit of a warning here. So many things in
AI are hard to understand because so much is changing,
so many claims are being made. And so today we're going to be talking
about things that only exist today. The only work today that you can download,
you can use. This is not a vision talk. This is real. And so if you'd like please
go download our stuff and use it today. Okay. So what we are doing at Modular,
we're building a native AI software stack. So AI is not a new thing. Much of the world's
AI software has been around for ten years. Plus TensorFlow, PyTorch,
all these things. We think that AI is so important that we want to actually reinvest
in the software stack, do hard work at the compilers
and the systems and the software and the algorithms layers to really enable
and unlock a new generation of portable AI compute. So what do we see
when we look at the world out there? Well, there's a lot of really great
software out there. ROCm. It's amazing. It's open source. But it runs on one vendor's hardware. There's other things like OpenCL thing I worked on years ago
that tried to unify compute, but it gave up all the performance
and it's not very usable. And things like this. There's also other cool things like Triton
that lots of people use and love. It's really amazing
at making it more usable and it gives you portability, but it also gives up a performance
as part of the trade off. Now this is I think I software as we know
today, lots of trade offs, lots of different things. They're all built by different groups
and different people. What we're trying to do is we're trying to build something
that unifies this world. And so we're trying to build something
that pulls together the best of usability, because we want developers everywhere
to be able to program GPUs. Performance, because, of course, TCO cost speed
or latency, all these things matter. So much for AI and of course, portability,
because we want to see innovation everywhere and we want lots of people
to be able to participate. And we think the AMD, for example,
has amazing GPUs with amazing flops, and we want people to be able to use them,
no matter what, what color their hardware is. So if
you zoom out and you look at our stack, I'm not going to deep dive
into all the different things. What we've done is we've taken a very first principles approach to this,
and where there's a lot of different AI software stacks that are built
out of these layer technology that have been accumulated in
AI for many years. What we've done is we built a novel
stack from the ground up. And so this means
that the matrix multiplications are written in Mojo,
which we'll talk about today all the way up to the higher level
stack, and models and applications and serving and cluster management,
all this kind of stuff. And it's designed
vertically integrated to just work. Now, of course, our company is named modular
and so we yes, we integrate with PyTorch. Yes, we integrate
with all the existing systems. You can take things a la carte
and that's fantastic. But what we really want to see is we want to see a new world where things in
AI work, they work the first time. They don't require
crazy amounts of configuration, and only by going all the way back to the basics
and rebuilding the software stack from first principles,
can you solve some of these complexity and other problems
that the world is struggling with? So Mojo, it's a new programing language. And so you might ask
why build a new programing language. Isn't that crazy? Well, the challenge out there
is that you kind of have to do crazy things
to be able to move the world forward. And so C-plus Plus
is one of the most widely used languages, first of all, in the world,
but also in GPUs. If you use C
plus plus you've used templates. And if you use templates,
you want to stab your eyes up. Right. And so the compile time, the usability,
the ecosystem I love C plus plus, but I also hate C plus plus. It's time to move the world forward. Now lots of folks are trying to make
Python domain specific language thingies. There's lots of examples of this. They're great and they can be great. But the problem is,
is that they don't work with the buggers. And profilers are not real languages. And so they look good on a slide, but they don't actually work well,
and they don't feel good to a developer. And so if you're willing to do the work
of building entirely new programing language,
which, by the way, is crazy, you get these benefits
of having something that gives you performance,
usability, and portability on one. So what is Mojo? Well, just at a glance, I'll introduce
it. It's a pythonic language. And so the syntax looks like Python
if you have muscle memory, if you have AI coding tools,
a lot of stuff just translates over. And it's super familiar. And I think a lot of people love Python
and so why mess with that? Of course,
Python is not great for performance, it's not great for GPUs, it's
not great for lots of other things. And so what we've done
is we built this new language that takes the best of Python,
but it's a systems programing language. GPUs are about performance. We want to
mark the full power of the hardware. You have to talk to tensor cores. You need this crazy advanced hardware
in order to be able to get AI. And so what we're doing is we're building this new ecosystem
around this new language and then building the layers on top of it
now, which is predominantly open source. You can go download it. It runs on Linux,
Mac, windows, all this kind of stuff. By the way, we have hundreds of thousands
lines of GPU kernels. Please check it out on GitHub. We also have an amazing community and
throughout this talk I'll include links. And so you can see examples of what some of the random people and random
amazing people in our community are doing. And so please check it out,
not just from our site, but on other people's websites as well. Now, I
talked about this a little bit before. Why build a new language?
Well, it's all about tools. It's about developer experience,
about productivity. It's about being able to move fast, which is something that everybody
in AI really needs. And that's
what we're all like struggling to do. And so yes, we get integrated
debugger experiences, we get profilers, we get amazing LSP integration
with your editor and things like this. Because as a language
like these tools know about the language. And that's something that's very different from something that looks like Python, but it's actually just
kind of embedded into it. Now I mentioned performance. Well, 
what do I mean by that. Well, just actually quite fast. So when you talk Python people start thinking about okay,
well is it faster than Python? And the answer is unless you're doing something really wrong,
obviously it's faster than Python. We measure and said from what
is the speed of light of the hardware? Like we want to be faster than ROCm
we want to be faster than Cuda, we want to be faster than C in C plus. And so we do this by innovating
not just in syntax, but in the compiler and the architecture of the system,
how all these things plug together. And so of course we bring best in class
techniques like SIMD on a CPU, Numa support and things like this. But we make it accessible to programmers
because, well, people want power. Often they don't want all the complexity,
fragmentation, all the details, thrust in there faster
and they don't want to deal with it. Now we're here to talk about GPUs. This is an AI event, of course,
and AI is all about GPUs. And so you can use mojo to program
GPUs from multiple vendors, including AMD. Very excited about that. We bring the familiar
GPU programing models to bear. And so if you're used to thread indexes
and things like this, you'll feel perfectly at home. And if you're used to writing ROCm kernels or
CUDA kernels, then what you'll initially feel is like Mojo is just it feels like C
plus plus, but it's in a Python syntax. Well, this is fantastic
because it's really easy to learn. You can bring all the idioms that you know
and you can bring it over. And again, you don't get C
plus plus template error messages, but you get the power of generic programing
and things like this. Mojo is also not limited.
So it's not just Tubby's programing. So yes, we do that. It's also about general purpose
AI applications. It's about other things
you want to do with the GPU. Like, yes,
you can write a ray tracer in Mojo. You get the full power of your hardware. Now, when I talk about the full power
of the silicon, GPUs are complicated. Let's not ignore
that. Let's not try to sugarcoat that. And so you have to handle this complexity
somehow. Some people say we will have a magic compiler,
and we'll put it in the compiler and be a black box
and just trust us, it's going to be great. Well, it's great
until you have to look at compiler IR dumps to debug what went wrong. Right? This is the unspoken
truth of many of these systems. Mojo's approach is completely different. We don't bury magic into the compiler. What we do instead is we enable programmers to have access
to the full power of the GPU. So yeah, you can use inline instructions
for AMD. You can go all the way down to the silicon
and have full control over the system. But then you as a programmer
get to build abstractions, libraries. Now you can see the source code for. And so if something goes wrong
you can debug it, you can step into it, which is a completely different
developer experience. Now I'm not gonna spend too much time talking about it,
but Mojo is also very unique because it's a programing language designed for very fancy MLIR compiler
things. I'm not going to nerd out about compilers
today. Well, one of those important things
is called a graph compiler. A graph compiler is what takes your
AI model. It takes all the kernels you write,
and it turns those kernels into the best thing
possible for that model. Because a lot of kernels you want to write should be generic, they should be reusable,
they should work with lots of different shapes and different data types
and things like this. But when you run it,
you want full performance. And so by integrating Mojo,
the source code and the compiler and the stack with the graph compiler,
what we get is this beautiful world where we can have
a single source of truth for algorithms. You can have one implementation of,
for example, Matmul that can scale across
multiple different hardware, different generations, different data
types, and all of these kinds of things. But you get specialized implementations,
which makes managing and scaling AI a completely different ball game
than what we're used to  with hundreds
of different permutations of kernels and trying to find them all
and manage them and all the nightmare
that we're used to. Now, one of the other cool
things about this is that you can call this stuff
directly from Python. And so yes, we integrate with PyTorch. You can work directly with these kernels
and all the ways that you're used to. And so we love Python for it. It's
good for. But when you want performance
modules your thing. Now let me tell you the secret weapon. But we're not going to keep it a secret. Of course, the thing that makes mojo
possible is it's called metaprogramming. And so if you're familiar with C
plus plus templates, think about the good parts of that,
like the power gives you. And let's take that power
and remove all the pain and suffering. And so I'll talk a little bit about this,
in the time we have today. But the key thing to know about metaprogramming
and mojo is that it is just programing. And so if you think about something like C
plus plus you have four loops and code, but then you have templates and so you have two different worlds
that are trying to live together. So you can write a generic program. And then actually the program
and some measure removes that difference. It's the same code that you used
for compile time and at runtime. And again, this gives
you power as a programmer to invent new kinds of abstractions
and effectively extend the compiler quotes by writing libraries
and writing logic code. Let's talk about some of the ways
that how that works. Well. So in Mojo, functions have basically two different kinds of things
that they can take. You have arguments. Arguments are normal things or the dynamic values
that get passed into your program. And then you have what we call parameters. These are things known at compile time. And so values
and mojo can have two different lives. One is provably known at compile time
and one is at runtime provably dynamic. And now what Mojo allows you to do
with a very simple approach is to have, you know, plus function calls, recursion,
all these things. Of course, they work at runtime
and of course they work at compile time. And you have one thing to manage. Well,
this makes everything simpler. This makes it so you can define
really advanced compile time features. For example, working with crazy advanced
layouts you need for tensor cores. Without having all this complexity
and without the terrible error messages that we're used to from C plus plus. Now Mojo
has a very powerful generic system. And so if you're familiar with languages like rust
and things like this, mojo has traits. And this makes it very easy to be able
to generate very good error messages when you do things that are wrong, because you're not having to instantiate
all the templates to figure out what went wrong,
you can actually report the error right at the site
if you do something wrong. And so this gives you
very powerful new ways to model programs. And so this is why people love
writing mojo. So what you're doing is you're taking
all the good things you love about Python. You're building in metaprogramming. And then you're giving very expressive
powers to library developers to invent new abstractions so that they can solve problems
that only they understand and they know the best, not just
some compiler person thinks is good. So when you get to playing this forward
and I start talking about cool, I have functions like take compile time
values. Well, we want to be able to enable
metaprogramming. This is very generic. And so in module this is super simple. Again
you don't have templates and weird things with type defs and using declarations
and stuff like this. You get one keyword called alias.
Aliases like a compile time variable. And so because types are just compile time
variables, it serves the purpose of something like a typedef. But you can do very powerful things here. And so in this example
we have a Fibonacci function. It looks like a very normal function
you defined on line ten. You can totally call that a runtime that works just like you expect. Go does recursion. Awesome. Well, you can also on line
19 calls that compile time. And what happens is Mojo guarantees
that function is called it compile time. And the answer is put into your binary. And so you have full control
of what the compiler is doing and full ability to express lots of fancy algorithms
that go way beyond Fibonacci, of course. And this power,
this flexibility is what empowers you as a library developer to take
advantage of this very fancy system. Now you play this forward. Mojo talks to things like low level assembly
and MLIR and very fancy compiler stuff, and we combine that
with powerful metaprogramming. What enables you to do is write
very generic code that is also portable, and write that
in a very straightforward way nd libraries and then you can build things
like a barrier function and have very simple, very generic algorithms that then have
a tremendous amount of power inside of it. And again, the cool thing about this is
you get that power, you get that flexibility, you get the configurability,
but there's no magic. And so if you want to step into this
in a debugger, you can totally do that. It's just that easy. All right. Well, let me tell you about, this
very fancy thing called Python out there. Python is great.
Here's a fire breathing python, I guess. I don't know what this is, but,
we do love Python, right? And we talk a lot about GPUs, but you can use all this stuff
within your existing Python ecosystem. Like,
we as programmers are very pragmatic. We don't want have to rewrite everything
just to adopt new technology. Right. And so one of the most amazing things
for Python programmers is that you can directly call from Python
into Mojo, and you don't need bindings. What this means
is that if you're a Python programmer and you're building and building and building
and you're being very productive and lots of cool things,
all the things we love about Python, but then you run into performance
problems. Well, now instead of having to switch to C
plus plus or Rust or Pi bind or like all this super crazy complicated stuff, you can
just move a few for loops into Mojo that goes,
you know, a thousand times faster and you can call it directly
from your Python code. You don't have to write everything. Don't change your ecosystem.
You can adopt it piecemeal. If you're super crazy, you want to make
the real power of all the flops. Why stop there?
Take the algorithm to the GPU. This is huge. We have people in our community
that are doing this, and these are folks
that have never programed in GPU before, and they always thought
the GPUs were scary or they weren't
smart enough or things like this. And so by making things easy and accessible and adaptable,
what we're seeing already is people are like learning GPU programing
for the first time. And I love this. This is the power of technology
and community. Now our whole point here is to empower
developers. Hopefully you get that from
the entire just of what I'm talking about. And so one of the cool things about this
is that if you're a Python developer, you don't have to like switch
from the things we love
about Python to curly braces, right? We don't have to switch
to these crazy compiled makefiles, CMake, whatever it is
that we're using again these days, inventing all of the same makefile stuff
over again. You can experiment with things. And so it's really easy to play with this, and you can work with notebooks
and all this kind of stuff if you care about performance, again,
you get this full power of the hardware. And even CPUs are cool, like they have
amazing amount of TOPS within the CPU. They have amazing features
and a lot of modern AI systems are not just the GPU, it's
not the GPU and CPU working together. And so Mojo is really quite unique
in that it can scale through your entire software life cycle. It can dramatically reduce complexity at every single level of the stack
that you might hit. And it can scale with you
as you learn from basic stuff in Python to the crazy advanced,
I want to go do a tensor core and build. amazing You know, the flashy attention 17 or something
that somebody might come up with next. Now, of course, I
don't have time to talk about everything. There's a tremendous amount
of awesome stuff in Mojo. If you're interested,
please do check out our webpage Go modular.com and you can look up
mojo things like zero cost abstractions. Yes, it's faster than rust, even on CPUs. Full dynamic shape support. You can get layered
tensor programing, like all the cool stuff
that you'd expect from a modern system. And so there's
a tremendous amount of depth there, and we just don't have time
to talk about today. And so you may be asking, okay,
this sounds cool. Again
I told you can download it today. This is not a vaporware talk,
but is it ready. Can you use it? The answer is yes. And there's lots
of different ways to do that. So going back to our stack,
one of the things we hear from enterprises is they want to deploy and scale
not just one model or one use case, but they have a fleet of GPUs
and they're managing these things and they have many different proteins.
They're all trying to throw workloads onto these GPUs
and they have to manage this. And so mammoth is a technology
we're just unveiling now as you scale into this can amazing,
TCO benefits disaggregated prefilled like all these cool things
that you've come to expect from a cluster scale solution,
but one that scales with you. Because the thing that we all know is
that research is not going to slow down. AI is not done. It's just getting started.
And there isn't one right solution. You need something that can scale
into the full complexity in the full chaos madness that is AI today. So the other cool thing about mammoth and the other cool thing about our entire
stack is we have a single implementation that scales, and it scales not just across
research, but scales across hardware. And we love AMD like, we're super excited about the 355
that we all heard about today. We also do love our friends at Nvidia
and they have great GPUs too. And so one of the cool things about
our stack is it's natively heterogeneous. And so if you have a commit
that works on an Nvidia, you have some AMD in your fleet and you want to use the best
algorithms that use the memory, the memory capacity of the AMD compute. We have other models that don't need that. Well, you can actually have
the best solution for your workload. Instead of having to decide upfront
what your workload will have to be three years from now,
which of course, nobody can predict. And so this technology
allows you to scale, gives you and your platform
engineering teams the ability to negotiate
the crazy chaotic waters of AI and actually be able
to scale into this and manage it. So we have a lot of stuff going on, and I will only talk about
one really exciting thing. Of course, that's AMD 355
we're very excited about this new hardware platform,
all the power and the flops. We think that it's everything that they've got going on
from the memory capacity to the six performance
to just everything that's happening with this chip is just amazingly excited,
and we can't wait to ship this Incentives that are available. So with that, that's the end of my talk
and I'm very happy to answer questions I'm happy to nerd out about like infinite
layers of detail on all levels. And so. Hey, Chris, amazing talk. You know,
congratulations on the partnership and the launch with 355 right. You know, mammoth. It's very exciting, actually. Like, in a way, we were actually looking
for that kind of, tool. Is it a native with Max and Mojo
or can I deploy it? Could, directly or, you know. Yeah. So.
So this whole approach is to meet people. They there. And so I talk about our native stack
because obviously we're very proud of them.
We put a lot of energy into it. But yes, you can put native Cuda kernels into a max model
and you can directly integrate Cuda like existing Cuda kernels. Of course, the only run on Nvidia hardware
as you'd expect, right. But but being able to meet people
where there is really important this works at every level of stack. So if you go up to PyTorch, like, yes, like we have a very fancy way
to have GenAI native models and that's cool. And we have over 500 of those,
by the way. It's very exciting. Great for the best performance and TCO
and all the things you might want, but turns out PyTorch is amazing for research. Amazing if you just want to fiddle
with one kernel. And so yes, our tech plugs into PyTorch
at the mammoth level. Yes. And it works great with Max, but it can also talk to vLLM,
and other solutions as well. And so we want to make sure that we can enable
and integrate in ways that our customers and everybody in
the ecosystem wants to work. Thank you. Yep. Thanks. It looks really cool. I'm curious, though, as the developer of
Swift, why go in the direction of Python? Just because that was
what the community was using, which would have been the same argument
that could have been made against creating Swift in the first place. And why did why not look at other models
rather than moving into a better Python? Great question. So let me reinterpret
cast your question here a little bit. So you said back in the day
of Objective-C, y'all Swift people,
that's me, decided to invent new syntax. And that seemed to work. Well, why? Well, the answer is 
Objective-C had a syntax problem, right? It was not very adoptable. It was not very usable
pointer square brackets. It was very scary. And it prevent people
from adopting them. Right. So you fast forward today
and what is the lesson learned. And by the way I love Swift. It's not a GPU thing
and like it doesn't scale. And so that's why not Swift literally you fast forward today we have exactly
the same thing going on today. It's not Objective-C
that the world is stuck with. It's gatekeeping. New developers, and gatekeeping and preventing people from learning
how to do this new technology. Today it's C plus plus. So C plus plus again it's widely used. Lots of people appreciate it. There's so much technology
that we have to thank C plus plus for because enabled just like back in the day
Objective-C enabled the first iPhone. But the sad reality is that C plus Plus is difficult to love. This is my opinion. Maybe you disagree.
And so we need something better, right? And so we decided you know what.
Actually Python is pretty great. It turns out you different
people can have different opinions, but Python doesn't have a syntax
problem, has an implementation problem. So what we did is
we took the best part of Python forward. And we said AI is fundamentally Python. Don't fight it. It's actually beautiful. And different people can disagree.
And this is my opinion. And so take the power
and the beauty of Python and then enable and open the developer ecosystem.
Because I don't know. My kids. Python does not know C plus. Plus does not know rust or Julia or any of the other things
you might be thinking of. Let's bring that technology
in that new platform to the developers that are in Python,
because I think it's pretty amazing. So I don't know if the
answer to the question, but that's how I think about it. Hey, Chris, thanks for the talk. Just wondering, like the mojo coming in,
trying to bridge the gap of performance and usability. And, you know, we can leverage it all. What do you think were the bottlenecks
like in the future? As we are trying to evolve,
we are trying to build compilers. Are the bottlenecks in the language or in compilers or in actual developers
mental model itself? Yeah, that's a great question. So, we are not working on this today. But it has been pointed out to me
that Mojo is actually perfect for solving things like FPGA programing
and HLS and things like this, because a lot of the DNA
that we've built into the language, and so what I would love to see is,
you know, modular is very focused on AI, right? As a consequence of that,
we are using Mojo ourselves. We have hundreds of thousand lines
that we have built. We have more mojo in our code than C
plus. Plus. This is it's amazing. It's I mean, as a guy who has written
too much C plus. Plus, this is amazing. But as we play forward
and as a consequence of building out AI and AI solutions using Mojo,
what we're focused on is we're focused on things
like how best programing. And so we have a very fancy
layer of abstraction so that you can program tensor cores, and you get generic code against tiles
and things like this. But as I think forward and as I dream.
Again, we're not working on this. There's domain experts
in many different fields. And so when I look at, for example,
FPGAs, right there are amazingly, incredibly parallel architecture, right? There are domain experts
that have built algorithms that are great
against these new forms of compute. And so what Mojo can do
is it can empower those developers to go build and innovate and then bring forward
a software ecosystem that can scale. And so I don't know
what the next limitation will be. I'm just right now very excited about
where we are and what we're able to solve. And I don't know kind of what
the fundamental headroom will be. I haven't thought about quantum
or DNA computing or analog or maybe. I mean, there's lots of
the computing is a big world out there. But I think it's pretty
exciting where we are today. Okay. I'm basically, what you. Well, you're calling, old style FPGA type of person,
so I'm not really a software person, but, just this is just my observation,
but I think this conference kind of it seems like Xilinx, the former Xilinx people, are kind of missing
from this conference. That's just my impression. It seems like the Radeon people
conference. So, my my concern I have is
I think the FPGA toolset like Vivaro or before I was call
ISC resilience is probably two. I see design focused and even the term FPGA programing to hardware FPGA
hardware background person like myself. It's I won't say it's offensive, but
it's a misnomer because it's a really FPGA is really is a hardware device to be. Now it's been kind of explored
by software. Okay. And there's a cultural issue,
if you don't mind. I'm not an expert on FPGA programing,
and I'd love to bubble it back to AI because that's the topic we have here. So yeah. Thank you. Chris, you know, just a follow up
question to the, the lady over there. Right. And she was asking, you know, what about, you know, other accelerators
like non GPUs. Yeah. You know, how do you see the support like, you know, the way right in the other day,
I was, listening to the talk from the Triton team,
the meta team. Right. You know, the fundamental challenge,
the way they were explaining was you need to program for other non GPUs. You need to understand
the microarchitecture. That's right. And you know I would love
to hear your thoughts on that. Yeah. So I mean the Mojo and the Max tech stack
is uniquely designed for that. We don't have anything to announce today,
but it's are definitely on our list of concern. And it was designed from first principles
to support that. In my history,
I worked on scaled Google TPUs, which is an example of a very large scale
deployment scale accelerator. And I don't know all of the world's chips,
but I know that we can scale into that class of architecture
and many others. And so, we don't have anything to announce
today, but, I'm very excited about that. And I'm very excited
about pulling this back together. And the plus one you, you can't have, like in air quotes, magic, abstraction like Triton, for example,
trying to provide because there are fundamental
differences in hardware. And so if you need fancy pointer indexing,
that's different than what that fancy compiler
stack promises to provide. Well, suddenly you're sitting there
fighting the technology, you're fighting the compiler,
fighting the system. And, you know, there's great claims. What I care about
is actually improving things. And so I do not have anything to say. You should everybody should be skeptical
of any claims until they can see it. And so Maxim Mojo don't run FPGAs
doesn't run ES6. Let's focus on what it does today,
which is it's an amazing thing for CPUs and GPUs. And, perhaps someday, someday later,
we'll have more to talk about. Thank you. So awesome. Well, thank you everyone so