If AI use the rocket, what makes a AMD the launchpad? we have accumulated a wealth of, IP and technology, How do you see this evolving over the next couple of years or beyond. I think you're going to see a lot more inference moving to the edge Hey everybody really excited for this chat today as we dive into AMD's AI vision and strategy with a true insider Rameen. How are you? I'm good. Thank you. Thanks, Evan. Well, thanks for being here. I've been really looking forward to this chat. Before we get into the details, perhaps introduce yourself, your role, and the big picture. What is AMD doing in AI right now? Sure. My name is Ramine Roane and I'm leading the group, in the AI group at AMD. And what's AMD is doing in AI right now? Well, we we have products that can accelerate AI from, the end point all the way, to data centers. So at the end point, we have, AI running in self-driving cars and satellites, even even on Mars, on the, on the Mars rover, in hospitals doing analytics and genome analytics and things like that. And then we have the AI PCs on, on, on laptops and desktop at the edge. And then the big, instinct, GPU in data centers. Wow. It's an amazing portfolio, amazing breadth of technologies. And central to that vision is open source, which is very impressive. Maybe talk about that. And how does AMD approach that? Rather differently from others perhaps. Yeah. So, for one thing, our entire stack is open source. So the rock and software, which is, our software stack to program our GPU, which was first specialized for HPC. Since AMD is really big in HPC, we have like the top 2 or 3 biggest supercomputers in the world. And then we have, maybe three years ago, we have adapted that to AI, which uses, you know, smaller data types like more state of P4 than FP 64, like HPC. So we've done, our first Igpu, in 2023 and adapted Rock M to, to do the whole AI stack and everything is open sourced. And we also very quickly realized that companies are actually using open source software. Like if you look at open AI, they're using their own branch of BLLM, which is, open source software for, inference serving. And Xai uses, their own branch of xG Dag, which is another open source software. So we, very quickly started to work with the open source community, We provide them with machines to do daily CICD and work on, supporting all the features and all that. And it's, it's just super important, not just for enterprise, but even big AI labs. Everybody is using open source. Absolutely. And you talk a lot about not just the software innovation, but combining that with hardware leadership. Tremendous synergy. How does that show up in real world performance? we came up with our very first, GPU in, 2023. It And we started to, sell it in 2024. And we basically went from 0% market share to 5% market share in our first year in the, you know, against the the biggest, baddest, GPUs out there. Right? So we're extremely competitive. Our customers are not small. They are, you know, the opening our eyes and matters of the world. Yeah. It's amazing. And you have so many developers, so many examples of where hardware software synergy has already delivered results. Can you talk share any those stories or anecdotes, examples where you're getting really measurable performance or efficiency gains? for one thing, our GPUs are not just competitive in compute. They actually go way above and beyond in, in memory and memory bandwidth. that's because we have accumulated a wealth of, IP and technology, on the epic, side, namely, we're chiplet sizing, our devices. It's not just two and a half TI. like, we have the, the memory hierarchy and the Io's on the first floor, and we have the compute on the second floor. And that allows us to to pack a lot more compute in the same, device and put a lot more. HBM, just to give you an idea of when our first AI GPU came out and my 300 x, we had 192 gigabyte of HBM, the biggest, best number one GPU out there had only 80GB. So we were like for almost two and a half x more in terms of memory and more than 1.66, the bandwidth. And obviously lambs are extremely hungry, not just in memory but also in memory bandwidth, at least for the the decode side of it is very memory been very intensive. And that's why we got very quickly adopted by the Microsoft and OpenAI and mentors of the world. so in the end it's a combination of hardware and software. Right. Because then, on the software side, things are moving very quickly. But honestly, the, the state of the art in software is no longer proprietary. There is no proprietary mode. It's really open source. It's, what the industry and or do we know proprietary stacks can can match. They're moving way too fast. So on the software side, we are taking advantage of our memory memory bandwidth at the same time as, keeping, up with the state of the art, because we were directly, working and developing with open source. Fantastic. And clearly Frontier Labs and others are betting big on AMD for AI, and a lot of that is through partnerships, really helping shape your future as well. Any lessons or insight into those partnerships and the partner philosophy that you're driving? that's really key, actually, to, to any, any product development. You you want to work very closely with, the users of your technology, whether they're customers or partners and, understand the gaps that they're seeing out there and, fill those gaps. So we understand the gaps, work with them, work with the internal engineering team, proposed solution. And, the solutions that, customers really they go well with. We, we implement them. Yeah. Back to the basics I love it. You mentioned, AMD technology is on Mars. I love that analogy. I'm a space tech geek as well. So If AI use the rocket, what makes a AMD the launchpad? You know, what's the mission control behind the launch? Yeah, people, partnerships, platforms. Is I would say the the launchpad is the community. It's really the community. The open source community is not nothing would, take off without them. At this point of time again, there was a time where proprietary software was the only thing available, and therefore the state of the art that time is long gone and and really, without without, open source. None of that could happen. Yeah. We have great technology. Yes, we have advantages on Chiplet and 3D packaging and all that, but none of that would, would take off without the the open source community. Yeah, it's fantastic to watch. Let's talk Rock M7 your developer platform. It kind of evolved from being an AI software stack to much more. Maybe talk about that evolution and where it is, where it's going. Sure. So so Rock M7 is a big challenge in that we completely re-architect it, Rock M we trimmed it down, modularized it. So it's completely open right now. It's on a GitHub called, the Rock. So it's. AMD The Rock and, you can install just the pieces you want. And at the same time, we've been keeping up with the needs out there. So we have a full enterprise AI stack when an enterprise company is buying your GPU, what do they do? They need a way to bring up that stack and start distributing workloads and using the GPUs efficiently, every hour of the day. Right. So we, we we have a ledger on to price tag, which is also open source. That's out there. We actually announced it in white reliability just today. So we have a blog on our website with all the links that are needed to, to, to access to that. And, another big thing we're doing in Rock M 7 also is to, catch up to a new trend which is, distributed inference and disaggregated inference, because now that, Frontier Lab are inferring at least as much as their training, if not more, inference efficiency has become a big thing. And one thing that, the open source community really, figured out is that by disaggregating presale and decode so trivially is the part of the LLM that analyzes your prompt, which could be, for example, a whole book. Right? To summarize and decode is the parts where it's just generating, right by disaggregating those two phases and running them on different pools of GPUs, you actually get much higher efficiency. Because they're just specialized workloads that, you don't want to run on the same GPU because they want to start, interfering and slowing each other down. so that's disaggregated inference. And we also enable, distributed friends in, in Rock M7, which are things like for mixture of experts, for example, you can run different experts in different GPUs. You you bundle experts and run them on different GPUs. And then you have to take care of all the GPU to GPU communication. You, GPUs actually communicate directly, bypassing the whole networking stack running on CPU. So all of that is, is coming with, Rock M7 that's fantastic. Are there any particular industries or workloads that are you think will take advantage most, and kind of stand out here? definitely. That's, that's one of the top use cases, although we are also, running things like diffusion search, ads. I mean, we have customers now really across the, the spectrum video generation. You mentioned region. But a lot of those are either attention based or, diffusion based or just classic ML for search and recommendation. Those are the workloads we're, we're mostly focusing on. So it's a competitive landscape obviously in AI. And, you know, reducing deployment costs is crucial. Total cost of ownership is being looked at. How do you think about Rock M7 helping organizations, enterprises achieve, you know, these goals? cost is very, very important to, to to our customers. for instance, just like for training, you just need to try to get to maximum utilization of your GPUs. That that includes, using as many views as possible, but also using as much compute as possible in the GPU and generating, tokens really, really fast for, for the compute and for the, for the power consumption that you have. Right. So, things like distributed in France are basically meant to, to, optimize, ROI so it lower. Nor is the cost for per token basically Any real world examples or benchmarks delivering cost efficiency? if you infer an alarm the old way, which means how we were doing it 12 months ago. compared to, using disaggregated and distributed inference on a cluster of GPUs, you can probably slash down the cost of tokens somewhere between ten, 20, 30 x, 10 to 30 x. Well that's blockbuster. Amazing. So moving a little bit away from the present, there's a lot exciting happening. But maybe talk about the future of AI compute. How do you see this evolving over the next couple of years or beyond. Any insights you can share there? I think on the inference side, honestly, as edge devices become more and more powerful, I think you're going to see a lot more inference moving to the edge in a few years, cell phones will have the same power as a data center GPU today. So yeah, that's how I see it. I see that inference will move more and more to, to to the edge to to the endpoints, and eventually in a longer time frame, even training could with federated training. Right. This is more like ten years maybe from, from from now. But. So I don't think we're going to continue this unsustainable gigawatt consumption for a year. This is all going to go down just like the Cray was using 100,000W, and now it's using, for what's in your pocket for, 6 billion times more power. This this is what's going to happen for AI as well. Fantastic to watch. So if we were to jump ahead to 2028, like in the back to the future movie and, what, what sort of milestone a breakthrough would you see signaling that AMD’s AI vision has really come to life? What what would you hope to envision there in the future in 2028? I guess the one single thing I want, I want to see by 2028 is AI proving a theorem that humans have never proved. Wow, that that would be a major breakthrough. Like one of those critical one of the millennium problems or something like that. That or finding, unifying the theories that Einstein never could write. Coming up with quantum gravity or something that, that that's that would be fantastic. Well, that would be. And I don't think we even need AGI to get those kind of breakthroughs. Speaking of the future and other topics that I might be relevant, do you think we'll see quantum computing at real scale and real utility? Real use? In our lifetime? I know you're involved in different in our time. And skeptical. Honestly. Okay. I think we're going to see a lot of improvements in quantum computing, but one of the biggest problems in quantum is that, those qubits are actually not stable at all because, you know, that they're in a quantum state if they interact with any other particle, they collapse. So that's why it has to be in vacuum. It has to be close to zero Kelvin. You shouldn't have electromagnetic waves passing by because that's like the photon hitting your particle. It's very, very finicky, very, very sensitive. I think we're still pretty far from having stable quantum bits. What will be fascinating to watch for sure. Speaking of technologies I'm excited about, I just recently got an AI PC actually powered by AMD, and I do a lot of cool local stuff involving editing and video and AI locally, so I'm excited. But I'm a tech geek. I'm an early adopter. Do you think AI pieces are going to really take off? Maybe we'll see more at CES this January or, you know, it's it's still mostly a data center cloud story. just the rate of improvement. We'll we'll make it AI PC in a few years, like in a year or two. I think AI PCs are going to be as powerful as the data center GPUs of, maybe 3 or 4 years ago. And that trend will accelerate. Yeah, I totally believe it will take us. Well, good to know that investment was well made. And and final question here. Do you think we're in an AI bubble? All the media and journalists are are super hyped on this topic? Or are we looking at growth that is really backed by fundamental change? there is a big shift happening in compute, and that's basically turning, regular algorithms like optimization type of algorithms and, and even algorithms that we could never write before in, in, in regular, you know, CPU programing are turning those algorithms into deep learning. And the reason we're turning them into deep learning is because deep learning is almost 100% parallelizable. The algorithms we had before had, let's say, 20%, a sequential core to it. And that's why with multithreading, we could never improve by more than five x, right? If it's 20% sequential, 80% parallel. The best you can do by using maximum multi-threading is to get rid of the 80%. But you you still have the 20% that. So you accelerated by say that with deep learning algorithms you don't have that. It's almost all parallel and you can accelerate an algorithm by 100 x 1000. That's a million x a million x. You can keep on going. And that's why we're not just accelerating algorithm like in HPC and all that. By turning bits and pieces into deep learning bits, we're creating new algorithms that we could never, never have done before, like image recognition, generate video generation, learns. So all that requires of shifting compute. And I don't think we're in a bubble. I think we're just shifting, to, to a new type of compute. It will eventually come down. We're still in our exponential phase. It's eventually going to settle down. You, you know, in a few years now. Yeah. There is a lot of excitement. Maybe there's some over excitement. So in bits and pieces of the markets. But in general, I don't think we're in the bubble that's going to burst in a year or two. I don't believe that. Well, I could listen to you for hours, but sadly I have to let you go. Thanks so much for the insights. The insiders perspective, and a brief snap, view of the future at AMD. I really appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you everyone.